---
title: 'TR-D Special Issue'
date: 2018-06-01
permalink: /posts/2018/06/news-1/
tags:
  - service
  - editorial
  - special issue

---

Dr. He is organizing a Transportation Research Part D special issue on the Advances in [Alternative Fuel Vehicles](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1361920920305952)
Climate change has led many nations to move towards alternative fuel vehicles (AFVs) (Skerlos and Winebrake, 2010, Wu et al., 2015, Jansson et al., 2017). The development of AFVs, such as electric vehicles (EVs), propane vehicles, natural gas buses, ethanol vehicles, biodiesel vehicles, nuclear-powered vehicles, and solar-powered vehicles, intends to replace conventional internal combustion engines with environmentally-friendly power systems (Hachem and Giovanni, 2019). Despite their advantages in reducing air pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), AFVs have disadvantages, such as a short driving range, high sales price, and inadequate charging/repair stations, which need improvement before full deployment (Wang et al., 2020).
This special issue contains a selection of articles that present new research to promote the adoption of AFVs as environmentally and economically feasible technologies. They enrich our understanding of how to facilitate the development of AFVs and transition to a more sustainable transportation system.
This special issue accepted 14 of the 32 submissions, covering AFV-related topics from four perspectives: adoption, policies, energy consumption, and charging infrastructure.
Eight papers address the willingness to adopt AFVs, shedding light on policies for promoting market penetration of AFVs. Carley et al. (2019) explore how the development of technologies and the market change consumer willingness to purchase plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs), using the data from two surveys of potential
From four distinct perspectives, this special issue presents readers a broad view of economic, technological, and behavioral effects on AFV adoption, offering new insights into transportation system planning and policymaking. We hope that readers enjoy these fascinating articles. We would also like to thank Elsevier and Transportation Research Part D for their support in publishing this issue.