---
title: 'Prof. Heaslip Visits RPI'
date: 2024-10-08
permalink: /posts/2024/10/news-1/
tags:
  - seminar
  - mobility

---

Dr. He invites Kevin P. Heaslip II, Director of the Center for Transportation Research and Professor Dept. of Civil and Environmental Engineering University of Tennessee to give a talk on "Research Agenda for Future Mobility: Exploring Innovations, Sustainability, and Smart Transportation Solutions." Thank you Kevin for sharing your vision with us!

His talk's abstract: 

The landscape of future mobility will be driven by technological advancements, shifting societal demands, and the urgent need for sustainable solutions. This research agenda delineates a comprehensive framework for investigating critical dimensions of future mobility, encompassing the integration of intelligent transportation systems, the advancement of sustainable and eco-friendly transport modalities, and the innovation of autonomous and connected vehicle technologies. The agenda identifies pivotal research questions and methodologies for deepening the understanding and practical implementation of next-generation mobility solutions. Core areas of focus include the deployment of electric vehicles, the application of artificial intelligence in traffic management, the evolution of mobility-as-a-service (MaaS) paradigms, and the socio-economic impacts of these developments. By fostering multidisciplinary collaboration and emphasizing real-world applicability, this research agenda aspires to contribute to developing an efficient, inclusive, and sustainable transportation ecosystem.
